Add rustlatin (#4)
ferrous-systems/teaching-material2: assignments/rustlatin.md

# Rustlatin

In this exercise we will implement a Rust-y, simpler variant of [Pig
Latin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pig_Latin): Depending on if a word
starts with a vowel or not, either a suffix or a prefix is added to the
word

## Learning Goals

You will learn how to:

-   create a Rust library

-   split a `&str` at specified `char`

-   get single `char` out of a `&str`

-   iterate over a `&str`

-   define Globals

-   compare a value to the content of an array

-   use the Rust compiler’s type inference to your advantage

-   to concatenate `&str`

-   return the content of a `Vec<String>` as `String`.

## Prerequisites

You must be able to 
* define variables as mutable 
* use for loop 
* use an if/else construction 
* read Rust documentation 
* define a function with signature and return type 
* define arrays and vectors 
* distinguish between `String` and `&str`

## Tasks

For this exercise we define

- the Vowels of English alphabet → `['a', 'e', 'i', 'o', 'u']`

> - a sentence is a collection of ASCII characters with words that are separated by a white space

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a sentence is a collection of Unicode characters with words that are separated by a space character (`U+0020`)
```

✅ Run the test to see if it passes.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```rust
fn rustlatin(sentence: &str) -> Vec<&str> {
    let mut collection_of_words = Vec::new();

    for word in sentence.split(' ') {
            collection_of_words.push(word);
    };

    collection_of_words
}
```
</details>

## Step 2 Concatenating String types.

✅ After iterating over the sentence to split it into words, add the suffix
`"rs"` to each word before pushing it to the vector. 

✅ To concatenate two
`&str` the first needs to be turned into the owned type with `.to_owned()`. Then `String` and `&str` can be added using `+`. 

✅ Add the correct return type to the function signature. 

✅ Run the test to see if it passes.

<details>
  <summary>Solution</summary>

```rust
fn rustlatin(sentence: &str) -> Vec<String> {
    let mut collection_of_words = Vec::new();

    for word in sentence.split(' ') {
            collection_of_mod_words.push(word.to_owned() + "rs")

    };
    collection_of_words
}
```
</details>

## Step 3: Iterating over a word to return the first character.

✅ After iterating over the sentence to split it into words, add the first
character of each word to the vector.

> ✅ Check the Rust documentation on the [primitive str Type](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.str.html#) for a method that returns an iterator over the `chars` of a `&str`. The `char` type is a unicode scalar value that represents a single character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
✅ Check the Rust documentation on the [primitive str Type](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.str.html#) for a method that returns an iterator over the `chars` of a `&str`. The `char` type holds a Unicode Scalar Value that represents a single *character* (although just be aware the definition of *character* is complex when talking about emojis and other non-English text).
```
